---
title: "Another Hello Summarised Word "
author: "jeny-amatya-qed"
categories: [public]
tags: [auto-import, test,word]
date: 2024-06-17 14:00:30
likes: 0
imported: True 
import-source: "GitHub"
import-reference: "4444"
---

Primary objective Provide a high level of virtual server administration, operating systems management, application hosting support and advice, enterprise storage, backup and recovery, as part of a team, to manage and maintain the midrange hosting environment. Context statement Data Centre Services operates on a full cost recovery basis as a Government Business Division (GBD) and is subject to competitive neutrality in accordance with National Competition Policy. More information can be found at www.nt.gov.au. Key duties and responsibilities Install, manage and maintain midrange application hosting environment, in a number of the following disciplines: Windows, Linux, VMWare, Enterprise storage and backups. Provide high level administration, support and maintenance in a number of Midrange Services product lines: Application Delivery Controller; Database; Disaster Recovery; Operating System; Server management; Storage, backup and recovery; Web and Content Management System; and VMware virtualisation and automation. Diagnose and resolve complex technical problems in consultation with clients, external service providers and vendors. Participate in midrange projects, and multi-disciplinary project teams to provide specialist midrange systems input. Provide a high level of advice on specialist activities to upper management, internal and external clients. Mentor colleagues in technical concepts and participate in information sharing and knowledge transfer sessions as required. Participate in a 24 hour call-out roster and attend out-of-hours work as required. Selection criteria Essential Demonstrated high level of knowledge and experience in establishing and maintaining complex server environments on various platforms, operating systems administration and management of server security. A thorough working knowledge of the Midrange products including Server virtualisation and automation, Windows and Linux operating systems, Server Security, Authentication Services, Firewalls, Reverse Proxy technologies, Enterprise storage, Backup and Recovery, change management systems. Demonstrated highly developed ability to identify and resolve problems using lateral thinking and persistence and to meet critical deadlines while maintaining high standards of quality and integrity. Proven ability to participate in teams to achieve outcomes and to work effectively to implement new systems and approaches. Track record of proposing creative and innovative technical solutions with a focus on continuous service improvement. Well-developed written and verbal communication skills to create technical documentation and effectively communicate technical concepts to key stakeholders. An understanding of Equal Employment Opportunity and Work Health and Safety principles. Ability to interact effectively with people from diverse cultures and varying backgrounds. Demonstrated work ethic and attitude, which emulates DCDD values of being professional, accountable, honest, innovative and respectful. Desirable Qualification in information technology or related discipline. ITIL Foundation Certificate. Further information Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders are encouraged to apply. The successful applicant may be required to undergo a criminal history check. A criminal history will not exclude an applicant from this position unless it is a relevant criminal history. Approved: 31st March 2023Senior Director, Data Centre Services