---
title: "Div test"
author: divya
categories: Public
classification: Unofficial (Everyone)
tags: [opinion,tutorials,agile,getting-started,faq]
date: 2024-10-30 03:09:42 
likes: 0
---

# 1. Automated Code Analysis: Quickly generates a comprehensive summary of a code repository.
*2. Test the content
3. /////////////////////....*..........................
4.<span style="color: #ef6a41"> Markdown Export: Outputs documentation in markdown format, making it easy to share, edit, and store.</span>
5. Scheduled Updates: Runs on a predefined schedule to keep documentation current.
6. **Resilient Architecture: Built on Azure Durable Functions for reliable and scalable operation.**
~~7. Integrations: Works seamlessly with public and private repositories, supporting tools like GitHub, Bitbucket, and Azure Repos.~~


Feature gaps in the existing implementation
The existing implementation of the LiveDoc tool still has some features that have yet to be implemented.

Trigger LiveDoc: Initiate a scan directly from the Admin site on the QED Developer Portal.

Set schedules: Define custom schedules for scanning based on the project’s requirements. Scheduling LiveDoc is an important part of the document generation as it ensures the projects documentation is always current and reflection of the existing state of the project.

View Reports: Access a history of generated markdown documents, with insights into changes made over time.

Manage API keys: Generate and manage API keys to maintain secure access. Whilst this functionality already exists in the Admin site on the QED Developer Portal, the LiveDoc Apis are secured by a different mechanism.